>> Brian Holt: Let's talk
about what context is.
In the first versions of this course
I didn't teach context at all,
because it used to be an unstable API.
With version four of this course
it landed as a stable API and so
it's actually now something that
you might want to use sometimes.
So, let's talk about why it
could potentially be useful.
Sometimes you'll have like
global applications state and
a really good example of this would be
something like user log in information.
So, maybe you are in Netflix.com and
as a user navigates from route to route to
route, every single page is gonna
use pieces of that user's data.
You should display the email here,
you show them their user
preferences over here,
you show them all this information that
you would get from the user logging in.
Right now with all the tools
that I've shown you,
what you would do is you'd put all
the information into app dot JS and
you would just pass it
into every single child.
Then, you would kind of have this
problem we would call prop drilling
where you would have to take the property
from the parent, pass it into the child,
take the property from the parent,
pass it into the child.
So on and so forth down multiple levels,
it's annoying.
It's also useful because you can see the
flow of data through your application, but
it's annoying to have to do it
everywhere for something like user data,
because every part of your application
is going to touch your user data.
You kind of get where this is the problem?
Where we have been solving that
is using redux, historically.
Redux is typically you have
this data store on the side and
you feed all the information
into the data store and
then every part of your application
can read from the redux store.
Redux is hard.
We'll actually go over it
in intermediate React, but
it's hard and often overkill for
these sort of things.
There's another thing that's new to
React called Context that you can use,
that you can load these into basically
a data store that your entire React
application can use and update.
But just know that's kind of
a double edged sword, right?
You're taking out the advantage
of React of being explicit, and
now everything kind of has
implicit dependencies, right?
It's hard.
So let's,
>> Brian Holt: Let's go take a look
at how you do that.
>> Brian Holt: So
I want you to make a new file here and
I want you to call it ThemeContext.js.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
gonna be short and sweet here.
We're gonna make a theme for
our application.
So import, create context, from react.
>> Brian Holt: I'm gonna say const
ThemeContext = React.createContext and
we're gonna give it a hook-like shape,
because we're actually going to
stick a hook inside of here.
But just so you know,
you can stick anything in context.
It can be an object, it can be function,
it can be a string, a number,
whatever you want.
But we're actually going to
literally stick a hook in there.
So, we're gonna put green, or
whatever your favorite CSS name color is,
and a function.
>> Brian Holt: Now,
why did I get this empty function?
This is actually a placeholder,
so it will use this particular
function if it has no provider above
it but this should never happen.
So this is actually more just notes for
your future self.
This is what this looks like and
this is what a hook looks like.
It has the state and it has an updater.
In this case,
the updater doesn't do anything, so
we just give it an empty function.
>> Brian Holt: Make sense?
And we don't want React.createContext.
We just want createContext like that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then down here at the bottom,
just export default ThemeContext.
>> Brian Holt: So
now we've created the context,
now we're gonna go use
it inside of our app.js.
Okay?
Instead of app.js we want
you to import themeContext
from /themeContext.
Here inside of app we're going to create,
we also need use state from react.
So get use state from up here.
Use state.
>> Brian Holt: And we're gonna say,
>> Brian Holt: Const
themeHook = useState.
And we have to give it
some default values.
So just to show that
the default value is different,
I'm gonna put dark blue in here.
>> Brian Holt: Now remember
we normally have been doing,
>> Brian Holt: color and setColor here.
Like this right here with hooks if you
remember from earlier in the course.
But right now we're just gonna grab
the whole array and call it themeHook.
>> Brian Holt: And then I'm gonna
wrap everything inside of here,
inside of StrictMode here.
ThemeContext and
then you say value = themeHook.
>> Brian Holt: So now what we've
done here, sorry, you have to do
ThemeContext on both of these .Provider,
.Provider.
Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: So on line 22 and
line 12 there introduce
Themecontext.provider,
>> Brian Holt: So
what we've done here is now
everything inside of here has
available as a global app
state this themeHook.
>> Brian Holt: Now, I could have two
different theme hook providers where they
can have search params and
details have different providers.
And they could have these
value be different things.
So there's actually a lot of flexibility
that you can do with context and
I just never use it.
So, the only thing that I find useful is
providing like the entire application with
a global application state but
there is some fanciness that you can do.